PAUL LEWIS: Right, we've
got some visual progress.
Finally, we've got
something on the screen that
is actually a thing to look at.
And actually, even
this little header
here has presented some
interesting side challenges,
mostly around what
to do with mobile.
Let me show you what it
does as the screen gets
bigger and smaller.
There we go.
There we are.
Oop.
And so this small sort
of 320-ish pixel-wide,
which is what you'd
find on an iPhone,
it looks like that
at the moment.
It has the little, you know,
the little menu thing going on.
And then as the
space kind of grows,
you get the actual sections
and you can, you know,
click around and
all the rest of it.
And they're little.
The thing is, this
little side nav here,
when you click on it--
pop-- pops out like that.
But that's all done
without JavaScript.
And you can toggle it
like that and so on.
So the way that I've done
that is a little-- so I'm
not the first person to do this.
In fact, if you
Google it, there are
plenty of people who
do similar things.
What we've got here is
a label, and the label
is connected to a checkbox.
And so when you
click on the label,
it basically toggles
the checkbox state
from checked to not checked.
And then the menu is styled
that-- you can see here--
if the checkbox is checked, and
I'm using the general sibling
selector, tell the nav to
be display block and all
the rest of it.
And so you can basically--
by toggling the checkbox,
you're actually toggling
the visibility of the menu.
No JavaScript.
And now what I'm
going to do is when
I get to adding in the
JavaScript to the site,
I'm going to progressively
enhance that to something that
slides in and out is my plan,
because while that works,
it's not the nicest
for it to just appear.
I'd like it to slide in and out.
But this is actually--
it's working just fine.
The thing that you'll notice
when you look at blog posts
or stack [? overflowances ?]
that mention doing something
like this is that they will set
the checkbox to display non.
And I didn't want
to set the checkbox
to display non because it--
so I can click on this.
If you look, I can click on it.
But I wanted to maintain
keyboard control,
and I need to put
in focus state.
Actually that's--
when I see this video,
if I haven't done it already, I
want to add a focus state back
on to that so that it's very
clear that it has focus,
because I think we want that.
But the reason I
didn't want to set--
you can see the checkbox
there-- the reason
I didn't want to set the display
non on the checkbox itself
is because you lose the ability
to do the keyboard control.
So right now, if
I hit-- if I say--
if it's got focus, by clicking
on the label, I give it focus.
And I can still tap to it.
If I set this-- look, if
I set this to display non,
I can still click on it, but
I can't hit spacebar anymore.
No amount of spacebar is
going to make that go away.
Somebody who's got a desire
to use their keyboard
is going to get
frustrated with that.
So I figure there's
no harm to having it
display, but opacity 0.
It seems to give me the best
combination of those two.
And because the
label isn't tab-able,
I'm hoping that that's the
correct combination of things.
I need to check with
[? Alice Box ?] or Rob Dodson
to just help me make
sure that I've definitely
done that right.
But anyway, that's the side nav.
And it obviously
disappears and so on.
So that's just a lot of sort
of CSS media breakpoint-y type
stuff.
And there is this slight
curve on the header,
or the slight angle,
which is done with an SVG.
And let me show you
that since we're here
looking at this header.
Yep, it looks like that.
And it basically,
like that, sort
of scales across based on that.
So because it's got
preserved aspect ratio non,
and it's just width, 100%;
height, 100%, basically
whatever div I give it to,
it's going to stretch to fill--
[CLEARING THROAT]
Ah-hem.
Oh, mh, hm, ah.
Get your voice right, Paul.
OK.
It's going to stretch
to fill up that element.
So that works out
just fine, actually.
That's giving me the kind of
look that I want it to have.
So there we are, a CSS only side
nav, which is doing just fine.
We can click around in the
location, schedule, and so on.
So making a little
bit of progress there,
and a couple of interesting
little things along the way.
Grand.
Don't forget to subscribe.
Don't forget to keep dropping
in the comments ideas, thoughts,
suggestions, all the above.
And I will, of course, probably
catch you in the next one.
[MUSIC PLAYING]